
We come in peace. That's why we're here. Isn't that the whole idea of Starfleet?
You don't trust me, Captain?
Technically, we would be lost.
 I estimate one hour, 17 minutes, 22 seconds. Which is why I've made sure we're not lost. The map says the well is this way, Captain.
(They walk on.)
This drought's going to last 89 years. The Crepusculans are facing extinction as a species. See those egg sacs? Those are their offspring.
Right, and if we don't do something now, they won't live another thousand hours. The ambient radiation from a nearby drilling accident dried out their water table. If we can get in and out without making contact, we can steer clear of General Order One. And there is the well.
Ye of little faith.
Point 7 second field burst at level setting 13.5.
The storm is moving faster than I thought. The ship won't be able to pick up our signatures. Unless we can contact Lieutenant Saru, we could be trapped here until it's over.
Why? Captain, where are we going?
But now we're really lost. We're far too small to be seen with the naked eye. And you can't set a course without a star. Is it wise to be heading away from the village?
I'm grateful, Captain. Though I would be significantly more so if I thought we had any chance of ever returning to the ship
A likely scenario unless we die here in the desert.
As a xenoanthropologist, I could reveal myself to the natives, learn their culture, try to fit in, if possible. And you, Captain? What will you do if we're trapped here for 89 years?
These are our footprints. You've walked us in a circle.
How did they find us?
First Officer's Log, Stardate 1207.3. On Earth, it's May 11th, 2256. A Sunday. The crew of the USS Shenzhou has been called to the edge of Federation space to investigate damage done to one of our interstellar relays. Blast burns around the hole are inconclusive. Were they caused by an asteroid, or was it deliberately destroyed to limit Starfleet communications? And if so, by whom? Despite the risks of our mission, I remain optimistic. It's hard not to be in the face of such beauty. In this case, a binary star system. Around these two suns, ice, dust and gasses collide to form the planets future generations will call home. A humbling reminder that all life is born from chaos and destruction.
Well, keep looking.
Finish your scans so you can express facts instead. The bridge is yours, Mister Saru.
Your Chief Science Officer is worried. Something took a bite out of our relay. Saru thinks it was malicious.
By all indications, nothing intelligent.
Starfleet's reputation for tech hygiene is exemplary. When a relay goes down, the Federation sends a ship to fix it.
If they are, they have.
Is this amount of sarcasm always necessary?
Range is 2,000 kilometres. Bearing 358 mark 269. Roughly 150 metres long, tucked into that accretion disk almost directly below us. It's in a sensor dead zone. Some kind of scattering field is confounding the ship's ability to translate the image.
With such little data, I'd prefer not to speculate.
Here we are, speculating.
I'll go. All I need is a thruster pack.
Like noodles? I'll be back in 19. A flyby.
You do understand that being afraid of everything means you learn nothing. There's no opportunity to discover, to explore.
Best to keep variables to a minimum. I wouldn't want to put my colleague at risk.
We've come all this way, Captain. It would be irresponsible to leave whatever that is unknown.
Just a flyby.
This is Commander Burnham. Commencing reconnaissance mission to field void and unknown object. Data collection is on and nominal. All lights are green.
Computer, enable igniter.
Aye, Captain.
I'm fully aware.
Shenzhou, do you copy?
Shenzhou, do you copy?
Hello. Shenzhou, are you able to see this?
Shenzhou, do you copy? Data Collection Unit, are you there?
Good. Mission time?
Plenty of time to take a peek. Even from this distance, it's clearly not debris.
I can't remember who said sculptures are crystallized spirituality. Headlamp. But I see what they meant. This is Burnham in the blind. I'm above the object, which is old. Centuries old. It's difficult to tell if it was constructed or carved. The only word to effectively describe it is wow. But I'll try to be more precise. Its surface has the appearance of stone with an exoskeleton of metal alloy. Oh, incredibly intricate. The construction and design are nothing short of astounding. I wish you could see what I'm seeing. It is sublime. It's impossible to discern a practical purpose. I'm going to land on it, get a closer look. Nice and easy. Hold on. My presence has triggered some sort of motion response.
I'm Commander Burnham of the United Federation of Planets.
Inviolable honour-shame dynamic.
Unwelcoming to the Federation.
Twenty four great Houses.
No.
Please. Stop!
Sarek. I'm sorry. I can do better.
I was dreaming.
Klingons. How did I get here?
Three hours?
There's no time.
What's going on?
What Have they made contact?
There are Klingons out there. We need to go to red alert.
I have. One attacked me on that object. Check my helmet cam.
He was warrior caste. His... his EV suit bore a Klingon house insignia.
I am not delusional. This has nothing to do with a concussion. Philippa, there are Klingons.
He ambushed me. I hit my thruster pack to get away. I somehow knocked him into his blade. I killed him. But that object could be hiding a Klingon raiding party, obscured behind their scattering field.
Target phase cannons on the object.
I didn't say anything about destroying it. Let's make them think we're going to attack.
Wait. Any response?
Not the most efficient defense.
Their entire ship is covered with coffins.
I'm afraid that's no longer possible.
Admiral, if I may. The ideal outcome for any Klingon interaction is battle. They're relentlessly hostile, sir. It's in their nature.
With respect, it would be unwise to confuse race and culture.
Saru is the only one talking. He strongly believes we should about-face.
Not if. When.
That's the diplomat in you talking. What does the soldier say?
It seems to be some sort of signal emitter.
 It's a signal pulse.
This may be the message. Captain, what if they're calling for the same thing we are? Backup.
Permission to leave the bridge, Captain?
It's relevant.
Computer.
Open dedicated subspace channel 222AA7.
Voiceprint authorise. Burnham, Michael.
Hello, Sarek. I'm happy to see you. They inform my logic. I need your help.
We've encountered the Klingons. I killed one. We're facing off. No fire has been exchanged. But they didn't turn on their beacon until Starfleet was on its way to our position. I think they're summoning more of their kind.
A war. This isn't about what happened, Sarek. It's what's happening now. How did the Vulcans achieve diplomatic relations with the Klingons? Sarek, please. Tell me. How did you keep the Klingons at bay?
Captain, we have to fire on them. Hit that ship with everything we've got.
The Klingon threat is always imminent and inevitable.
240 years ago, near H'Atoria, a Vulcan ship crossed into Klingon space. The Klingons attacked immediately. They destroyed the vessel. Vulcans don't make the same mistake twice. From then on, until formal relations were established, whenever the Vulcans crossed paths with Klingons, the Vulcans fired first. They said hello in a language the Klingons understood. Violence brought respect. Respect brought peace. Captain, we have to give the Klingons a Vulcan hello.
It would be logical for you to take into account my success rate during our seven years together, and execute my plan without further challenge before we're dragged into war.
We have to. Captain. I apologise for my insubordination.  Don't underestimate them. I've overseen their exercises. They're ready for battle.
My commitment to this course of action is not emotional. We target its neck, cut off its head.
Thousands of lives will be lost because of failure to act. 
And your life, Captain. Yours. You're right. I may not be myself. I'm sorry.
You're relieved, Mister Saru. I provided her with Klingon intel from a personal source on Vulcan. She's passing it to the Admiral. Weapons, slot a pair of photon torpedoes in the tubes and compute a firing solution targeting the neck of that Klingon ship. We have to be ready in case that's what the Captain decides. 
 I'm your superior officer. We are in a high-risk scenario. Question chain of command again and I'll remove you. Target phasers. Take your station, Commander. Move, Saru. Tactical.  Fire!
Captain, please. I'm trying to save you. I'm trying to save all of you.
No. Those ships are Klingon.



Respect is earned, as is friendliness.This is hardly a negotiation.  Less. On Vulcan, lateral vector transporter technology has been discarded due to the massive amount of power it requires.
I have no standards when it comes to this ship. It was always my intention to join the Vulcan Expeditionary Group. Emotional platitudes are not what I was hoping for. As I have seen yours.
As is yours. It appears to be functional. Thank you Captain. The Klingon High Council consists of 24 houses. That can't be a coincidence. The number of ships. It suggests that someone is attempting to unify the Empire again, against us. Computer, how badly have we been hit? Who's there? Connor, what happened? Who else was hurt? Is... is the Captain all right? I can't help. I'm locked up for mutiny.
Connor, you took a blow to the head. Activate that comm panel and call Doctor Nambue.
Sarek? How is it possible? A mind-meld across a thousand light years?  I couldn't convince Captain Georgiou to strike the Klingons first, so I took matters into my own hands. You're disappointed. As you should be. What's wrong? Then leave me. Please. You were never one to bolster my self-esteem. 
Computer, implement steps of brig emergency evacuation protocol. This is a life-saving circumstance. I'm going to die in here unless you let me out. How long before my cell's containment field fails?
Is the corridor outside the brig undamaged and still pressurised? But if you open a metre-sized hole in the containment field, the rapid depressurization will shoot me through to the blast door in less than six seconds. Then ethically you should open the door for me.  I'll take it. 
Captain, you can't do that. T'Kuvma has anointed himself the next Klingon messiah. If you kill him, you make him a martyr. Someone they can fight for endlessly. That might even be what he wants. But if you capture him, you make him a symbol of defeat, of shame. And if you take him as a prisoner of war, well, you give the Federation leverage to sue for peace. I believed it was the only way to avoid a full-scale war. You want to know how I turned on you? I believed saving you and the crew was more important than Starfleet's principles. Was it logical? Emotional? I don't know. Let me deliver the warheads in your place. They're gathering their dead. This is the aft section of the bridge. T'Kuvma must be close.
Get us out of here now.  I'm not leaving without her body. More Klingons are coming. No! Guilty.
 Guilty on all counts. From my youth on Vulcan, I was raised to believe that service was my purpose, and I carried that conviction to Starfleet. I dreamed of a day when I would command my own vessel and further the noble objectives of this great institution. That dream is over. The only ship I know in ruins, my crew gone. My captain, my friends, I wanted to protect them from war, from the enemy. And now we are at war, and I am the enemy.




Eight thousand, one hundred and eighty six. That's species GS54. An organism that feeds on electricity. It's feeding on the shuttle's power systems.  Unless the pilot can get rid of the infestation fast enough, they'll drain us of all of our power, and we'll drift until our oxygen runs out or we freeze to death. Whichever comes first.  Keyla. Suus Mahna. Captain, what am I doing on this ship?  I received no warning that I'd be transferred to another prison facility, which is customary. Then my shuttle changed course halfway through the journey. Sir? Question is, what am I gonna do with you? If I put you in the brig someone's gonna die, and I don't have the time for that kind of distraction. You have training in high-level quantum physics, don't you? My engineers tell me it's gonna take three days to clear the lightning bugs out of the prisoner shuttle. I have something on deck that requires every trained mind available. You're gonna help us out. No. No, thank you. Respectfully, I owe a debt for my crime and it'd be best... I'd prefer to serve my time without getting involved. And what mission is that, sir? Working on what? Why are you nervous? Seriously? No problem. Michael. No, you won't. What's going on? No. 
Tilly, what the hell is going on on this ship?  Saru. Congratulations on your promotion.  I understand. 
The ones in prison don't taste the same. I suppose that is a function of the environment your eating them in instead of a food synthesiser issue. I suppose so. So many people with so many places to go. 
So, this is a science vessel. Saru. First Officer Saru. I saw a recording of the speech you gave at the Captain's funeral. It was beautiful. I never thought I'd get a chance to say this to you. I think about what happened every day. All the time. And I owe you. I'm trying to say... Yes. I just wanna get back on that shuttle, Commander. I won't make any trouble for you here. I'm looking for Lieutenant Stamets. 
Starfleet doesn't keep its engineering labs classified. I'm Michael Burnham. I was assigned. Yes. Yes.
There may be a misunderstanding. Yes. No.  I was raised on Vulcan, and I attended the Vulcan Science Academy. I'm not sure I'm following.  I'm struggling with these equations. Initially thought I was dealing with quantum astrophysics. But as I got deeper in, biochemistry came into play. Maybe even a form of gene expression. It'd be helpful to know what I'm working on. It's your call. But either way, this line here? It's a mistake. Not really.  I understand. It's okay. You're a nice kid, Tilly, but I'm not staying long enough to make friends.  Basidiosac? That's an unfamiliar term. Basidia refers to spore-producing structures. The numbers I've been analysing have been consistent with organic structures. You mentioned the term bloom. That typically refers to biologicals.  I'm trying to get up to speed, so that I can help with this mission. In what is our problem based, biology or physics? Sir?  All right. Lieutenant Stamets, I sincerely have no idea what research you're involved in. I never even intended to be here. What the hell could do this to a dozen fully armed Klingons?  Run. In here. What was that thing? Log data's corrupted. Jammed. One Federation ship is pretty much like another, I hope. I need a phaser. I'm not trying to kill it, I'm trying to piss it off. Hey. Shit, that worked. The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way, then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a moment to think about stopping herself, but instead found herself falling down a very deep well. 
Jefferies tube. Elevate the shuttle 200 feet, rear quarter, above the shield replacement units. Open the top hatch. (turns into a smaller tube) She was now only ten inches high. Her face and body brightened up. She was now the right size to go through the little door into that lovely garden.  Go! 
Permission to enter the bridge, Commander Saru. The Captain requested my presence. I'll be on it, sir.
 I appreciate your faith in me. Thank you. Captain. Sir, I've been court-martialed and convicted. I'm afraid I can't take you up on your offer.  That's not it. Not all of it, anyway. Let me answer your question with a question. Why do you want me to stay? I'm not here by accident. I think you brought me here. I think you've been testing me. You're developing some kind of experimental technology. Some kind of spore-based biological weapon.  The kind of weapon that is explicitly forbidden by the Geneva Protocols of 1928 and 2155. And you need someone to help you. Enter, me. A mutineer who intended to wage unsanctioned war on the Klingons. A trained officer who's been banished from Starfleet. And someone who would presumably do anything to get out of their life sentence in prison, including illicit weapons tests, like whatever went wrong on the Glenn. I'm not who you think I am. Before I was a mutineer, I was a First Officer in Starfleet. I'll never bear that rank or any other again. But it is who I am, and who I will always be. It is by the principles of the United Federation of Planets that I live. And by them I will most certainly die. Black alert. How do you travel on spores? The veins and muscles that hold our galaxies together.  I'm still here. Hope you don't mind. Captain. Captain Georgiou. It's okay. 
When I was a kid, after my parents were killed, my foster mother on Vulcan used to read it to me and her son. She and I were the only humans in the house. That's how I learned that the real world doesn't always adhere to logic. Sometimes down is up. Sometimes up is down. Sometimes, when you're lost, you're found. Amanda. 





Computer, cancel mirror.  It's not quite as easy as that. Tilly. I'll see you in Engineering. Bridge. Direct. Captain Lorca offered me an opportunity. I can tell by your threat ganglia that you weren't consulted. A valuable asset. That's what you called me. You can tell your threat ganglia to relax. I'm only here to help.  They need us to win. I'm happy to assist Lieutenant Stamets with the refinement of the spore drive.  I also studied quantum mechanics at the Vulcan Science Academy, sir. These are some of the deadliest weapons in the galaxy. Why would you keep something so dangerous onboard your own ship?  How do you know it's a monster, Commander? Your Ripper appears to share some natural traits with the Tardigrade species, a docile creature that lives in the waters of the Earth. A micro-animal capable of surviving e xtreme heat and subfreezing temperatures. In our case, somehow, macroscopic. All the recent logs were corrupted, but the Glenn's captain made an earlier entry that security detected a stowaway. There was no hull breach, and no unregistered microbiota in the transporter's pattern buffer, but this was found rummaging around in the lower cargo decks. You judge the creature by its appearance, and by one single incident from its past. Nothing in its biology suggests it would attack, except in self-defence. Commander, this creature is an unknown alien. It can only be what it is and not what you want it to be. Look. The moment the spore drive came online, the creature's central nervous system showed micro-patterns of activity in the frontopolar cortex. It reacted before we jumped. I saw it cry out in distress. It's more likely a connection to the spore drive itself.
It may not be, but it helps us understand its motives and behaviour. Wait, wait. Why are you sedating it? I do not think that's a good idea. We have no idea what effect sedation may have on it. And we've seen how it responds to aggression.  Computer, lights to maximum. Computer, seal containment pen. Emergency transport. Sickbay. Door. I've been thinking about the way I treated you on the Shenzhou. At times I was very unfair. You wouldn't be wrong to call me out for being selfish. But I can't help notice that your threat ganglia are quiet now. Fascinating. Commander Landry was about to attack the creature, and I believe her death was an act of self-defence on its part. And now, based on your lack of threat response, I'm ready to submit that the creature's primary drive is not aggressive. It's not a predator. They were necessary. Why were you on the Glenn? What were you looking for? Spores are the thing the Discovery and Glenn had in common. 
You should probably go. I appreciate you taking the risk, but this could be dangerous. Stay back. Keep still. (to the Tardigrade) I brought you something I think you might like. If you don't, well, they can blame whatever happens on my curiosity. Computer, open containment pen. Hello. These are Tilly's tricorder images from our mission on the Glenn. Look. The doors to the Engineering room were blown outward. The shatter pattern of the reaction cube, the destruction, like something inside was going crazy. A very big something. Then there's excess shielding surrounding the room. It's as if the crew was trying to keep something in. Captain's log said they found the creature in their lower decks. I remember you chided Straal about not growing his own like you do. You were talking about mushrooms. They didn't have a forest on the Glenn like Discovery has. If they stored their mushrooms dry, it would have to be in tremendous quantities in their lower stores, right there, where the creature first appeared. Their spores, actually. This ship's spore drive travels on a network of mycelium that's spread across the entire galaxy. We just can't control where we go. But maybe the Tardigrade can. Straal said he found a way to solve the navigation problem. You said his modifications needed a supercomputer, right? What if its name is Ripper? The phaser will only piss him off. My tricorder is detecting energy transfer. Some form of symbiosis. It is talking to them. Not just converse. Maybe even tell them where to go. If we can figure out how to interact with that tech from the Glenn, we may be looking at our new navigator.  Computer, open containment pen. Hey, you feeling better? I brought you the good stuff. I'm sorry. I accept.





Doctor Culber, I've been studying the creature since it came on board. It's incredibly regenerative, but with each jump Discovery makes, it cries out. And the last 48 hours, it seems sluggish, depressed. You think I'm anthropomorphising. Thank you.  Thank you, Tilly. There's nothing to tell. Tilly, it's not you. It's me. I'm out of sorts, and preoccupied. The Tardigrade. Each time we use the spore drive, it gets weaker. I barely have a job here. I've never been less busy.  I don't like it. I came to speak to Captain Lorca. Multiple jumps? I just don't know how feasible it's going to be. I'm concerned that we are negatively impacting the Tardigrade with each jump we make.  I disagree with that assessment. Not as of yet. No, of course not. I'm just worried. I don't know how much more the Tardigrade can sustain. The more you hurt someone, the less helpful they become. Yes, sir. I can handle him. Lieutenant Stamets. Your spore drive is genius. Beyond genius. What you've achieved for the war effort, for the whole of science itself, it's a contribution. We need to find a work-around. Making Ripper the critical component for the s-drive is unsustainable for the creature and your invention.  I didn't, either. I am swallowing the urge to set the record straight. Enter the Tardigrade, whose unique genetic makeup allows it to navigate through the network, because of its symbiotic relationship with the mycelium's spores. Like its microscopic cousins on Earth, the Tardigrade is able to incorporate foreign DNA into its own genome via horizontal gene transfer. When Ripper borrows DNA from the mycelium, he's granted an all-access travel pass. And you were only able to achieve small jumps. Let's do it. 
So far, we found one viable workaround. This hypospray contains Tardigrade DNA and replication catalysts that will initiate rapid horizontal gene transfer in a host. The interface process requires an evolved organism, a species with a highly functioning nervous system. And one that, like the Tardigrade, shares genetic information with mushrooms. The animal kingdom may have diverted from its fungal counterparts 600 million years ago, but Homo Sapiens still share over half of our DNA with them.  I know. And that's why we need more time.  Captain Saru, I understand that you are upset. You're in command. It's a time of crisis. And your culture trains you to be on the heightened lookout for enemies. But I assure you, I'm not one of them. Come. Cadet Tilly brought me up to speed. Sir, permission to speak freely. Are you really afraid of me? To be Captain Georgiou's First Officer. You did well. Very well. She would've thought so, too. She left it to me. It's yours now. You should have the privilege to see the universe the way she did. Of course. No. But if this is its response to an adverse environment, what does it consider to be hospitable? This creature has traveled to the ends of the universe. My hope is that what makes it most happy is to be free.



Two more laps before breakfast. You still need to shave six point five seconds off of your time.
Six point five. And yes, they matter, if you're ever gonna make Captain. Everyone applying to the Command Training Programme will be smart. Personality doesn't count. Six point five seconds is not an arbitrary number. Your new time will earn you a physical endurance commendation. Today, your goal is six point five seconds. Then, getting a transfer on a Constitution-class, like the Enterprise. After that, First Officer track. See your path, stay on it, reach your destination. Cadet to Captain, just like that. What's it going to be, Tilly? Computer, cancel that order. That's hardly the correct ratio of protein, carbohydrates, and fat. Computer, three egg white breakfast burrito with black beans. Make it two. Computer, add roasted tomato salsa. Cooked tomatoes are a great source of lycopene. Remember that. Six? I've fought Klingons. I doubt it. I can't imagine Captain Lorca feeling that way about anyone. The same. You probably can believe everything you hear. I should go. Yes. No. Sarek. You brought me here. Sarek!  Sarek. It's not me, it's Sarek. He's in trouble. I share part of his katra, his eternal life force. I was raised as one. After my parents were killed at a Vulcan outpost. He believed I could serve as humanity's potential. But not everyone agreed with him. A group of logic extremists, they didn't want humans in their culture. They tried to stop him by killing me. They bombed the Learning Centre where I was educated. Renegade Vulcans, a small faction. And they didn't try, Doctor, they succeeded. I was dead for three minutes. The katra has a healing power and Sarek used it to save me. A kind of soul graft. It's a procedure that's frowned upon, and rare. Once. The start of the war. He sensed my distress and came to me. But this is different. I can feel him slipping away. I don't think this is a conscious effort on his part. Sarek is delirious. He might be dying. Captain, please. Captain, help me find him.  I still sense Sarek, but it's growing erratic. I think he's getting worse. Me. I'm guessing from your reaction that modifying this neural enhancer is a viable method to achieve what I need. I can sense that Sarek is unconscious. I want to use this mind-meld to wake him up so he can activate his ship's transponder.  I was thinking adrenaline shot, but okay.
Okay, so we go in with a shuttle. As long as I don't overstay my welcome, the shuttle shields can handle it, but I need someone to work the neural enhancer. I'd like Cadet Tilly. She's smart, and I could use the moral support. You know where Sarek's mind is? Where his dying thoughts have taken him? To me. No. No, you don't understand. I was supposed to be his proof that humans and Vulcans could coexist as equals, but I ended up being his greatest disappointment. That's what he's reflecting on. I was rejected from the Expeditionary Group for being too human. My failure is his last thought. He doesn't believe in me, but I'm supposed to save him. They will. Sarek is delirious. I can't allow him to push me like that out again. But fighting him is gonna put a massive strain on me. Don't. No matter what the sensors say, you leave me in there. Okay? Go. I'm sorry, Sarek. You were wrong to believe in me. Why are you doing this? You called me here. Your katra pulled me. You're near death. I can help you like you helped me. Give me a chance. Please.
 No, you're not.  I said I'm not leaving here without Sarek. Sarek keeps blocking me. I can't fight you, too. I don't know. His thoughts are fixed on my graduation day, but the emotions from that memory are too difficult for me to handle.  I'm going back in. Sarek. What are you hiding? (the fight restarts) What don't you want me to see? Is it really worth dying over? I can save you, Sarek, but you have to let me into your mind. Let me in. You had faith in me once. I'm asking you to have faith in me again. You chose Spock over me, didn't you? You were forced into that decision. Why not tell me the truth?  Instead, you made me believe I failed you. You manipulated me. Do you have any idea what living with that lie did to me? Shame? Show me how to save you like you saved me.  My thoughts to your thoughts. Wake up, Sarek. Tell us where you are. He'll live, but Doctor Culber says he can't meet the Klingons in this condition. The window for the talks closes in a few hours. Even if the Federation wanted to step in, they couldn't get there in time.
Much as it would displease my Vulcan mentor, I'm feeling a lot of emotions right now.  I'm not sure pride is one of them. But I do want to thank you, sir. You didn't have to mount this rescue mission for Sarek. I accept. I'm grateful to serve under a Captain like you.  it's good to see your strength returning. What do you recall of your rescue? Of what transpired between us? You know what happened. You could talk to me about it, help me understand what you did. It could make us grow closer, not further apart. That's what families do. You can do better. But I won't push you. We'll have this conversation one day, Father. I gave you bad advice. There are a million ways to get to the Captain's chair. Find your own. Stubborn and impenetrable as always. He claims he doesn't remember any of the mind-meld. I always knew I could never be who he wanted me to be. But I realised today that it goes both ways. I'll never get from him what I want, either. It's okay. Part of me feels unburdened. Thank you. All my life the conflict inside me has been between logic and emotion. But now it's my emotions that are fighting. I think about him and I want to cry, but I have to smile. And I feel angry but I want to love, and I'm hurt, but there's hope. What is this? Michael Burnham. Pleased to meet you. Have we? Let's try it again. 







Personal Log, Specialist Michael Burnham. Stardate 2136.8. Despite my fears to the contrary, I seem to have found my place on this Discovery. An air of routine has descended upon the ship, and even I am a part of it. I've made friends. Well, one, at least. I take comfort in my work. This ship has quickly become the most important weapon in the Federation's arsenal in our war against the Klingons. And because of her, the tide has turned. Because of us, we are winning. Lieutenant Stamets' ability to pilot the ship's spore drive has given him access not just to all of space, but to unseen parts of his personality as well. As we perform our daily responsibilities, I confess I find some members of my fellow crew more interesting than others. Lieutenant Tyler has suffered so much, and still maintains such dignity and kindness. I find him... intriguing. But I fear my personal history interferes with my ability to forge relationships. I am among the others... but also apart. I wish sorely to step out of my comfort zone, yet don't know how. But tonight, I will face one of my greatest challenges so far. Tonight we are having... a party. Starships have power-redundant relays. There shouldn't be any flickering.  Oh. I helped him calibrate pulse scope rifles in the armoury. And we ate lunch together because it was the end of our shift. Duly noted, when I'm actually on a date, which these were not. How does he compare to yours? Inappropriately so. Wait. No, I... To be clear. I wasn't attempting to be rude. It's just that my experience with parties is limited. Due to my rank, interpersonal fraternisation was... not appropriate. Oh! I'm sorry, Lieutenant. I'm sorry, Doctor Culber. I believe you've met Lieutenant Tyler. He's our new Chief of Security here. There is no deal. Scanners identify the object as biological. Xenobiological classification gormagander. Its health appears to be compromised. Hunting isn't the cause of its reduced numbers. It's primarily due to their mating practices, or lack thereof. They spend their lives feeding on alpha particles in solar winds. They're often so consumed by this task that they ignore all other instincts, including reproduction. Captain, the gormagander is on the endangered species list. Protocol requires us to transfer it to a xenologic facility.  No matter what she is, she is all alone. Energising. All right, sweet girl, let's see if we can't figure out what's got you down. Burnham to the Bridge. Intruder alert. Shots fired. Need immediate assistance. Inappropriately so. To be clear. I wasn't attempting to be rude. It's just that my experience with parties is limited. Yes, but due to my rank, interpersonal fraternisation was inappropriate. There aren't always simple answers to those kinds of questions. Stamets, slow down. It's a space whale.  I can't advise that, Captain. Captain, I'd like to run point on this, sir. As science specialist, I'm the most qualified to handle the needs of this creature. There have only been 57 cases of near-misses with starships in the last ten years. The odds are almost incalculable. Yeah. Activate transporter. Medical readings are abnormal, but nothing else is unusual. I'm gonna get closer readings. Faint. An energy pattern. Almost like a transporter beam. Tyler, you know this man. Computer, beam intruder to the brig. You are mad. Stamets, the drive. The gormagander is on the endangered species list. Okay. I think we need to get you to Sickbay. think these might be side effects of your... Exposure to the alien DNA. It's possible we haven't taken into consideration the cognitive variances. Well, how are you capable of existing outside of the time loop? Yes. So you remember everything? How is Mudd creating a time loop? Where is Mudd now? Starships have redundant power relays. There shouldn't be.  I wouldn't take you for this kind of event.  Why would you say that to me? I believe you. But what if he won't talk to me either? No. We don't have time for that. I mean. I am really bad at this.
And if what you say is true, then Tyler and I don't have any more alone time until the next reset. Our one chance to fix all this, and I blew it. I'm out of my element. But say I wanted to... step out of my... corner. How do people connect in that way?  That doesn't make any sense.  I can't say that I have. But after such a rude exchange, why would he do that?  I'm good at honesty. Hi. : I thought you'd never ask. Will you lead, please? So, I hear you were locked up in that Klingon prison cell with Harry Mudd. I've never understood it, really. But I've realised that relationships are built on honesty. So here it is. Harry Mudd is here. And in a few minutes, he's gonna take over this ship. He wants to sell it to the Klingons. He's already trapped us in a time loop.  I wish it were. He tried, in previous loops, but he felt like you'd have an easier time trusting me.  Because I like you. And he thinks you like me, too. That was nice. No, please ignore it. We have to. Did Mudd ever mention having access to equipment that could help him do something this big? Did he say how he did it? A time crystal. We learned about these at the Vulcan Academy. But the decay rate of the lattice is too unpredictable. No Federation-aligned species has ever been able to stabilise them. A four-dimensional race must have perfected the technology, and now Mudd has it. Let's go. Tilly, where are you? We all died. Many times. But now Mudd has everything that he needs, and if we can't find a way to stop him, then he'll let Discovery rejoin the time stream and sell the ship to the Klingons. Anyone who's dead'll stay dead forever. And Starfleet loses the war. I noticed that Mudd was wearing a crystal on his wrist, but it's too small to generate enough energy for chronal displacements. There has to be a larger energy source. Poor thing. No wonder you feel bad. Mudd hid the ship inside the creature and the crystal inside the ship. This crystal, it has the same orthogonal indices as the device on Mudd's wrist. No, because Mudd has control of all the critical systems, and we're running out of time. Now that Mudd knows how to work the spore drive, the only way is to get Mudd to reset time himself.No, he doesn't.You seem at home. You should have been a Captain.Hmm. And what about Stella? Are you done? The Klingons will pay a lot to win this war, but there is one thing they would pay more for.Me. I murdered T'Kuvma, the Klingon messiah.I'm not an officer. I'm Michael Burnham.You'll get a lot of money for this ship, but what would I be worth to them? Lieutenant Tyler.  Not for long.Lieutenant Stamets has shown us your success is a universal certainty. As am I. You win. You seem very happy. No, but Discovery's archives are non-critical systems. You probably should have disarmed them as well. And now that you don't have your time crystal, you can't learn from this mistake. No wonder you needed the deal with the Klingons so badly. You had to disappear. Another non-critical system. You didn't send our coordinates to your buyers. Turns out you can con a con man. Hey.Stamets told me in a previous timeline, that we er.Danced.  He said I liked it. I can't imagine. I didn't mean.What I'm feeling is complicated and strange.What is it? Personal log. Just as repetition reinforces repetition, change begets change. I guess the truth is, we never really know what's coming. Sometimes the only way to find out where you fit in is to step out of the routine, because sometimes where you really belong was waiting right around the corner all along.









Personal log, Specialist Michael Burnham. Stardate 1308.9. We landed on Pahvo eighteen hours ago. It's a seemingly uninhabited planet, but a unique and, for us, strategic one. Every tree, rock, and blade of grass here vibrates with its own specific tone. Together, these combine to form a kind of music - the signature sound of the planet, heard everywhere on the surface. The sound is even broadcast into space by a towering crystal structure, a sort of naturally occurring transmitter. It is Starfleet's plan to modify the electromagnetic frequency of Pahvo's signal and harness it as a form of sonar that can detect the presence of the cloaked Klingon vessels decimating our fleet, make them visible to our sensors, and turn the tide of war in our favour. You've been setting an accelerated pace since we got here. It's unfortunate that the transmitter's interference meant we had to beam down thirty kilometres away, but look around, it could be worse.  Kelpiens pursued by apex predators have exceeded speeds of eighty kilometres per hour. They can also sense predators from as much as ten kilometres.  I'm sorry. It's not registering as a lifeform, sir. According to this, it's actually not distinguishable from the rest of the forest. Universal translator's got nothing.  Are you all right? We can't touch that transmitter now. No. Order 1 restricts us from revealing ourselves to sentient beings that aren't warp-capable. We're well beyond that. Now our duty is to follow First Contact protocol, and we can't borrow or alter their property without them understanding our objective and agreeing to it.
He's got to. Convincing them to let us complete our mission is the only way.And the war ends. Easy.I haven't.Sounds perfect. Our futures look different. You go back to your lake house and I go back to prison. My sentence was life. This is just temporary. The needs of the many Or the one? How far did you get?  Is the transmitter their creation? You look exhausted. Oh, hello, Commander. Looks like someone got some sleep. Our new friend was okay with that?  So you're saying we have permission to complete our mission as planned? What are you doing? We can't do that, Commander.  Saru, something has happened to you. You are not thinking clearly.  Obviously Saru has been compromised.  I'm not sure we actually have the Pahvans' permission. You know the Federation has procedures. No starship may interfere with the normal development of any alien life or society.  But we can't trust anything he says. What about Saru?  Come on, come on, come on.  Yes. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. Yeah. Michael Burnham to Discovery. Discovery, do you read me? Saru, please, stop. Saru, this isn't you. Is this what harmony and balance look like? Where is the peace you say you found here? I would give anything for a second, a millisecond, of peace. But until the war is over, none of us can have it. Saru, staying here, it's not gonna fix anything. We have the power to end this conflict. Saru, we need you. Please listen. Saru told you who we are, and like you, we seek harmony. But we face a threat that doesn't share that same goal. But with your help and our technology, we can put an end to this conflict. Isn't that why you exist? To keep harmony and peace? You have to help me finish what I've begun. Thank you. Saru, please look at me. Are you all right? You weren't yourself.  I thought it was, sir. The Pahvans repaired our signal inhibitor after Saru destroyed it. I watched it happen. Captain, I don't understand. The Pahvans .No. The Pahvans did that. Their entire existence is an effort to bring harmony to discord, and they know about our conflict. They're trying to bring us together. They think they're helping.We're the Pahvans' only line of defence. We have to protect them, sir. We have to fight. 






Currently We suspect the Klingon cloak generates a massive gravitational field, one that bends light and other electromagnetic waves around the ship. But the cloak has small imperfections, so what appears like background EM radiation actually contains near-imperceptible shifts that correlate to the cloak's gravitational field. Their shields and weapons are offline when they're invisible, so it gives us a small window to beam over after the cloak is down, but before their shields go up. There is a problem, though, sir. It will take time to gather sufficient data. Days. The effectiveness of our sensors depends on their placement at the points closest to the Klingon vessel's stern and bow. But their Bridge is roughly four times the size of any Federation ship. I've been there. Only one location will work. Lieutenant Tyler doesn't know how to access it. I do. Sir, you offered me a place on this ship . You are the Captain, but you are not using the full resources to ensure the success of your mission. There is no logic to your thinking. Unless this is about me. I'm here on borrowed time. When you asked me to stay, it was to help you win this war. Given the time I spent on that Klingon vessel, I'm the most qualified crew member to place those sensors. Otherwise, I have no purpose here.  Thank you, Captain. Pattern simulators are online. Our life signs are masked as Klingon. First drop point is six hundred metres this way. Out this door, down that passage.  I'm detecting a human life sign onboard. If we have a chance to rescue one of our people, we have to take it. The life sign isn't far from the Bridge. Just on the opposite side. It might even provide us a location to wait out the jumps. I have to bring everyone home.  Admiral. Admiral, I'm Specialist Burnham. Can you move? Tyler  Tyler! Here. I'm here. I'm here. Here, come on. He was a victim of Klingon torture. Captain Lorca dispatched us to install sensors aboard this ship so we could break the Klingon cloak. I have to make it to the Bridge.  I don't have a choice. Here. (gives her a phaser) Discovery'll beam us out when the time comes. Tyler, can you hear me? I'm gonna see this mission through. I meant what I said. Everybody comes home. General Kol, I wish to talk. This device is a universal translator. An example of human ingenuity. It's proof of our desire to communicate. You are Kol. You took T'Kuvma's place. I thought Klingons were honourable. Where is the honour of taking a ship that doesn't belong to you? You had no hand in the battle that caused this war. You were not here when T'Kuvma fell. Because I was here. I'm the one who killed T'Kuvma. Her name was Captain Philippa Georgiou. I regret that my actions that day have locked our people into this war. If you are to capture me, then prove your worth. T'Kuvma defeated the woman whom that belonged to. Do me the same honour. No, it's not. And neither is this. Doctor Culber.  It's gone, the Ship of the Dead. The planet of Pahvo is safe. We did that.  I need to know something. You put on a facade. Like everything that's happened to you just washes off. I actually envied that about you. But when you saw that Klingon... Who is she to you? You were her prisoner. What did you do? No. I'm glad you're here, too. You get to live your life the way you deserve to. Not at war but at peace. 




Blast scoring and damage patterns are consistent with Federation weapons, but the hull signatures are a little off. Wreckage is Klingon, but hull density analysis is registering outside acceptable margins. They must have registered an active Klingon ship somewhere nearby.They're doubling back. Vulcan rebels? Firing on Starfleet? That's not possible. All matter native to our universe resonates with the same quantum signature. Nothing can change it. And you and Stamets believed the spore drive could jump between them? But, these areas don't correlate to anything in the known universe. A vast system underpinning all quantum realities.  It's worse than that. The Klingon cloak-breaking algorithm we'd been refining. There's no way we can send that back to Starfleet now. Well, Stamets brought us here accidentally, so we should examine the spore drive's navigational logs more closely. There could be an indication. Yes, Captain. I'm detecting what looks to be a Klingon central data core in that wreckage. It's inside a larger debris array about 200 metres ahead of you.  And some good old-fashioned human know-how, Lieutenant. Readings are good, Captain. I think the data core is intact. If we can bring it on board, we can get a crash course on what those Klingons knew about this universe. The core is likely part of the main computer located at the rear of the ship. It should be easy enough to extract. There are no life signs in that wreckage, Lieutenant. You're all clear. Ready to proceed? Tyler. Proceed with extreme caution, Lieutenant. Even the slightest nick could corrupt the data or destroy the core completely.  Sir? Yes, sir. Isik for your thoughts. It's an old Vulcan saying. No one actually knows where it comes from. What happened out there, in the worker bee? You have to tell the Captain. Why? Who knows? It might be around the corner. What you went through on the Klingon Ship of the Dead . And what if you can't? I'm taking you at your word, Starfleet. Duty calls. Well done, Tilly. Strange. The core itself is Klingon, but these data chips are of Vulcan design. They should be compatible with our universal interface. But this fused data technology, and their sharing of ships... Is it possible that in this universe, the Vulcans, Andorians and Klingons have some sort of alliance?  I'm gonna get into the interface and try to figure this out. 
Of course he does. All right, let the xenoanthropologist get to work. I'm downloading the Klingon raider's logs Images, battle plans, intelligence that we found from the core. And so far, we can conclude that we are indeed in a parallel universe. But one not governed by the Federation, but by a fascistic, human-only organisation known as the Terran Empire. Most places and ships that are found in our universe, like the Cooper, exist here. The same goes for people. Theoretically, yes. The Terrans appear to be the antithesis of us, in every way. They're an oppressive, racist, xenophobic culture that dominates all known space, and they're ruled by a faceless emperor. They're part of a rebellion that is made up, essentially, of all non-human species. They're fighting for freedom. The rebellion fears and mistrusts humans. The Terran culture appears to be predicated upon an unconditional hatred and rejection of anything and everything other. They think we're their Discovery. Modifying our ship's signature to match that of mirror Discovery. 
Belay that. I'm sorry, but you can't take it, sir. I'm examining the crew manifest of mirror Discovery. You're not its Captain. I don't know who you are over here just yet, so conceal your voice just in case.  You gained the rank of Captain by stabbing your previous superior in bed. He was recovering from Crestian flu. It's more than possible. Your nicknames include The Slayer of Sorna Prime. The Witch of Wurna Minor. And finally .We won't be needing them, sir. I finally found the files on our Terran counterparts. We're not here. I'm presumed dead, and you're a fugitive wanted for my murder.  Well, the intelligence is fragmented. Looks like most of it's been stolen from classified Terran files. But it appears that you and I both enjoyed immense prestige here. I was the Captain of the Shenzhou, and you had the Buran here, too, sir. No. You attempted a coup against the Emperor. I was sent to stop you. In the process, my shuttle was destroyed by one of your followers, and I was killed, and the Emperor laid waste to your ship in retaliation. It's believed you escaped.  I'm not sure if I believe in destiny. Destiny didn't get me out of prison, Captain. You did that. There's no information in the rebel files beyond the fact that the Emperor is savage.  No, listen, Commander. There may be some kind of temporal anomaly at play. It's unclear, but data suggests that in the future, the Defiant will encounter a phenomenon that'll bring it into this alternative universe's past.  No, but I am. Presumed dead. My body was never found. And I'll explain that my death was a cover that I used to hunt him to the end of the quadrant. Tilly. And stop apologising. Terrans don't apologise. You are a captain now. You don't actually have to be her. I've been trying to understand them better. And Terran strength is born out of pure necessity, because they live in constant fear, always looking for the next knife aimed at their back. Their strength is painted rust. It's a facade. But you have the strength of an entire crew that believes in you. Fortify yourself with our faith in you. That's what a real Captain does. He was my Ops officer on the Shenzhou. I watched him die at the Battle of the Binary Stars. I knew we'd encounter familiar faces. But is this what it's gonna be like here? You thought exactly what I wanted you and everyone else to think. Especially him. It was the only way I could capture this traitor.  I don't need your compliments, Connor. I need my ship. I expect you've kept her in perfect condition? Then bring her to me. Be sure that you do.
 My God. Clear, Captain. Keep your hands off him. You think I'd let just anyone control the fate of the most valuable bounty in the galaxy? I'll take Lorca to the brig personally. There are any number of souls on board looking to serve up his severed head for their own glory. Absolutely not. What did I say to you? I do not want some overzealous guard killing this traitor before I have the chance. I would punish the entire ship for an error that grave! See to it that he is installed properly here. I need to access my files. Escort me to the Ready room. Glad to hear it. Dispose of him. Long live the Empire. You scared the hell out of me. How did you get in? No chance. Everybody on the crew, they're trailing me, trying to sidle up, curry favour. And I didn't want to rouse suspicion. Yes. I'm saying it back.
 
 




I can't rest here. Not really. My eyes open and it's like waking from the worst nightmare I could imagine. Even the light is different. The cosmos has lost its brilliance. And everywhere I turn there's fear. What is your name? It's been two days. But they're already inside my head. Every moment is a test. Can you bury your heart? Can you hide your decency? Can you continue to pretend to be one of them, even as, little by little, it kills the person you really are? I've continued to study their ways, read all that I can. It's getting easier to pass. Which is exactly what I feared the most. We're all human here. We all start out with the same drives, the same needs. Maybe none of us, no matter what world we're from, really know what darkness is waiting inside. Thank you for this. You remind me of everything good. Of what I want my world to look like. We're done here. Go check on my prisoner. This looks good, Saru. I'm gonna call you Saru, in honour of a respected friend. Computer, accept transmission. Low band, zero traffic. I'm alone, Tilly. Yes, sir. I've accessed the classified files, but the data's too massive to decipher from here. The Terran firewall is impenetrable. I'm unable to transmit intel off-ship without being detected. So I take it Lieutenant Stamets' condition hasn't improved? I will find a way. No, I haven't, Saru. I'm sorry. Not as pleased as I am to have reclaimed what's mine. I'm more than up for the challenge. The Klingon leader of the resistance. Terran General Order Four. Any exotic species deemed a threat to the Imperial Supremacy will be extinguished without prejudice. Do not anticipate me, Number One. No. I have my orders. You've all grown soft in my absence. You think it was easy tracking Lorca, bringing him back here alive? We could kill the Fire Wolf and his followers, and lay waste to their operation from above. Or we could get our hands dirty. Prep a landing party. I'll infiltrate the rebel base myself. And return with the intel we need to bury the resistance once and for all. But I can't send hundreds of rebels to their death to save myself. Permission to speak freely, sir? I fear that your suffering has influenced your judgment. I will find a way to get what we need to Discovery, but in the meantime, lives are hanging on my command here and at home. And this rebellion against the Terrans? It's an unshakeable union of species. Klingons, Vulcans, Andorians, Tellarites. It's the closest to a Federation this universe may ever see. My point is that a Klingon leads the alliance. A Klingon. They rally behind him. If we can walk away from this with the means to successfully negotiate with the Klingon race, that's real hope for finding peace at home. Please, sir. I no longer have my pips, but I'm still Starfleet. Don't force me to slaughter this coalition of hope. Better dead than one of them. Just follow my lead. Energise. The rebel encampment is 500 metres from this point. Because they don't want you to.No, no, no. To them, we're the enemy. If we fire back, it confirms that.I have a plan, Tyler. Hand me your phaser.I seek an audience with the one you call the Fire Wolf. We come in peace, against the orders of our Emperor. We come to deliver a message. A warning.Active camouflage. This is how the Fire Wolf kept the base secret for nearly two years.You're the Fire Wolf.The old Michael Burnham is dead. I'm the new Michael Burnham, the one who's betraying her kind, risking her life to save you. There are two sides to every battle. I cannot. But it is not who I want to be. Not anymore. I understand your urge to fight. The only way that you can see me, determine my true intentions. But I do swear to you, every moment that we square off wastes precious time. The Emperor has discovered your location. I had orders to enter Harlak's orbit and destroy your base. I think we can help each other. I want something from you, and in return I will save your followers and ensure the longevity of your resistance.No. But my Emperor will be satisfied when I strafe Harlak with photon torpedoes following the safe evacuation of your people. Guilty. Wait. I told you I wanted something in return. You lead this group of vastly different species. A Klingon, whose pride of honour is eternally fused with his identity as a warrior, stands side by side with a Vulcan, who cannot possibly comprehend his need for aggressive emotional expression. And a willful Andorian looks to you not with hostility, but with allegiance. I need to know how. How have you come to compromise and embrace each other? But the light of Kahless demands that you honour the ways of your race, yet here you are speaking in a foreign language, placing your faith in the cultural customs of others.The Terrans will not stop until all of their enemies are destroyed.So you are united by the common adversary, but does that union not contradict your drive to defend the Klingon honour at all costs? Tyler, no! Tyler, stop! No. No.No. My guard has attacked you against my orders.No! You have one hour to flee with your lives. My ship waits in Harlak's orbit. But I do need to prove that my mission here was successful.Thank you for your wisdom.Burnham to Shenzhou. Two to transport.Have it analysed immediately. It contains the data we need to bring the rebellion to its knees. Tell Tactical now is the time to prep those torpedoes, but I'll give the order to fire weapons at my discretion.I'll be in quarters. Tyler, you're with me.Tell me the truth, right now. What is happening to you?I have had your back. I've saved your life. I've loved you. You didn't just jeopardise me, you jeopardised our mission. Our entire crew back on Discovery.No! We were surviving. It was under control. And this erratic behaviour, it's not because of this new universe. I saw it onboard the Klingon flagship.In the worker bee, when you could barely complete a simple mission, you said I was your tether. Ash, I need one, too. What are you hiding from me? She brainwashed you. She wanted a spy aboard Discovery.You're not making sense.Who? Who? Who? Klingon? No. You're Ash Tyler. We're gonna get back to Discovery and sit with Doctor Culber, and he's gonna. What? I need to contact Saru. (grabs phaser) I don't want to use this. I will.Your lord? You've lost your mind. I didn't testify to that. It's you. You were there on that bridge. I remember.I'm fine. Of course. So ordered, Number One.Do you have anything to say for yourself? Wait. This one dies by my own hand. Have Lorca delivered to my Ready room. I'd like to soothe the blow of Mister Tyler's betrayal with a private interrogation.We need to leave this place.But my mission was successful.I don't think I can survive this place alone.The rebels haven't completed their evacuation. Grab Lorca.Who is it? Why can't we see them? Hail the commanding officer. Tell them to retreat. Now!





I received a transmission from Commander Saru before we departed. He managed to decrypt the Defiant data that we smuggled off of the Shenzhou. The file has been redacted, but there is some data on how the Defiant crossed into this universe. A phenomenon called interphasic space. But where that space is, the exact coordinates, struck from the record. I synthesised a custom analgesic to numb your nerve receptors, as you requested. It should help with the agonisers.
Georgiou. Logic tells me she's not the woman that I betrayed. But this feels like a reckoning.Haven't you ever been afraid of a ghost? cannot unearth the coordinates that tell us where the Defiant crossed over, our spore drive remains our only way home. And it remains inoperable while Lieutenant Stamets is in that state.That one.Captain Gabriel Lorca, delivered to the Emperor's justice. And long overdue.The food is delicious, as always.You're too generous. I earned my command on the Shenzhou.I had it under control.And you've grown cruel. If you miss me, then say it. Otherwise, let me be.Lorca's men are everywhere, even here aboard this ship. If you had known I was alive, they would have known, too. It would have been impossible to ambush him the way that I did.Please, Philippa.You don't love me. You don't love me because you don't know me. Before today, you and I have never met. I am Michael Burnham, but I am not your Michael Burnham. I'm from another universe. I have proof. It's in my pocket.That piece of metal contains the quantum variance from my world. It's subtle, but it's there. There's absolutely no way to fake it. It belonged to my Captain. It belonged to you. Our bond, it seems, is strong enough to cross universes.You have no reason to hold my Captain any longer. He shouldn't have to suffer for your Lorca's crimes. Emperor, my ship and crew are here by accident. All we want is to return to our universe, but we need your help to do that.Because you care for Burnham. Despite her betrayal, you said you loved her.Cornerstones for successful cultures.We just need access to the redacted information about the Defiant. We believe that it'll help us get back. Share it, and you have my word you'll never hear from us again.We arrived here a different way.An engine malfunction.Our ship jumped here with its displacement-activated spore hub drive. If I agree, how do I know you'll let us go? Entirely.Trust me, so would I. But he's locked up. His safety depends upon your arrival. I'm sending you the coordinates to the Emperor's ship now. We'll see you soon. I need to see my Captain. He won't survive your agonisers much longer. He's suffering.I don't understand.You're saying Lorca and I...? You're sensitive to light.He needed me to get onto this ship. You wouldn't have let him on otherwise.He needed me to get to you.None of this was an accident. My so-called Captain's not from my universe. He's from yours.




Emperor, I've seen firsthand how he operates. He can get inside your head, manipulate you.He is baiting you. He wants you to come to him. Let me contact my ship again. They have no idea they're flying into a battle zone. Please, Philippa.No.Burnham to Discovery. Do you copy? Come in, Discovery. Burnham to Discovery. Do you copy? Come in. Discovery, do you copy? Come in. Please come in.It's good to see you, Saru.He's one of them. He's Terran. He used us and the Discovery to jump here, to his own universe. It was his plan all along.Lorca's staging a coup against the Emperor. You have to abort coming to the palace ship. Get as far away as you can.Saru, he has no need for our crew. He will kill all of you. He might take Discovery back to our universe and bring the whole Terran fleet with him.How do we stop it? But? Leave the containment field to me. Stay at warp, so you can't be boarded, and I'll find a way to signal you when I'm in place. Be ready to blow up the reactor when I do. Burnham out.What makes you think I'd do that? With you? The only thing I was blinded by was you.This is your sanctuary. Considering the situation, it made sense you'd come here.Why would you say that?  Lorca believes destiny brought me to him. But he doesn't get to tell me what my future is. I'm responsible for forging my own path. We all are. My Philippa taught me that.You lost a daughter, an empire. I lost a Captain, and a life. Both versions of me betrayed both versions of you. I won't let that happen again. And I won't let you die again.I'm gonna stop Lorca.I have to disable the orb's containment field.By giving Lorca exactly what he wants.I won't let another crew die on my watch, Gabriel. I've been here long enough to know that if you want your claim to the throne to be legitimate, you have to execute the Emperor.What you said on the shuttle yesterday was right. She's not my Philippa.I think you know. In exchange for my crew, I offer you me. Let them leave safely and I'm yours. Like you said, my future is here. But know this. I'm offering you my mind, nothing more.I'm where I need to be, Saru. This is my place.You won't.We would've helped you get home if you had asked. That's who Starfleet is. That's who I am. That's why I won't kill you now.Burnham to Discovery.





This Kelpien is my captain. Sir, I can explain. I hoped to spare you the pain. I could offer excuses. I was trying to destabilise the Terran Empire. I... I thought Starfleet could benefit from learning about an alternate universe. The truth is that I just couldn't watch her die again, Saru. I wanted to offer her more. I am sorry.Any news from Command? Doesn't feel much like home.
How? What happened to him was completely outside of the realm of sanctioned medicine.His torturer? Is that an order, Captain? Is that an order, to see him?  I'm sorry. I can't.Sarek, please.There's no pattern to these attacks. There's no logical progression to their targets. There's not even consistency of method. I don't understand.Admiral There's one more thing you need to know.Emperor, the Federation has questions. I need you to answer them.The Emperor narrowly escaped a violent revolution. She deserves political asylum. That's a Klingon crest. House D'Ghor. There's been a change of plans. Another Klingon attack. You'll have to stay on board Discovery a little while longer.We mean you no harm. The Admiral was just.Why would you say that? He's essentially my father. He raised me.Another echo of fate between our worlds. Your rule extends through every system in your galaxy. You've conquered places Starfleet hasn't even dared to explore. I see now that the time for peace has passed. I need you to tell me, how did you defeat the Klingon Empire? I started this war, and I need to finish it.I wanted to show you a place of morality, of hope.I feel it every day of my life.I have a proposal.Qo'noS is composed of a subterranean series of now dormant volcanoes. It is a planet of caves.Rather than surveil our targets from orbit, we can map the terrain from the inside out.And once we're in position within the cave system, we'll release our surveillance drone to collect the necessary tactical information.Thank you, Admiral.What evolving details? I'm fine, Sarek.He... I don't know what he was. I've made foolish choices. Emotional choices.Admiral Cornwell requested a status report. I just said goodbye to my father, and it felt different. Final. It won't be, right? Death found me when I was a child. So, yeah, I knew what I was getting into.It makes you optimistic.I'm told he's doing well.He killed a Starfleet officer, and he he tried to kill me.I do. That does not mean I should.I don't know where to start.I believe you. Was there ever really an Ash Tyler? And did he love me? Because I loved him. You lied to me. You said that if it got to be too much, that if you couldn't handle it, you would come to me. And it did. And you didn't. And that wasn't Voq, that was you. Tyler.Excuse? Stop.Maybe you're right. I know in my head that you couldn't be responsible for Voq's actions, but I felt your hands around my neck. And I looked into your eyes and I saw how much you wanted to kill me. The man that I love wanted me dead. And no matter how hard I try, when I look at you now, I see Voq's eyes. I see him. Your crew may have put it behind them, but I can't.We created something beautiful today in a desolate wasteland that had never seen life. After the Battle of the Binary Stars I was so lost. I had to sit with myself. I had to work through it. I had to crawl my way back. I'm still not there, but I'm trying. That kind of work, reclaiming life, it's punishing and it's relentless. And it's solitary.Ash. It's not easy letting you go.Yes, Captain.




On the eve of battle, on a cold and windless night, an old general turned to a young soldier. "Tomorrow," said the master, "you will know fear." The young soldier, who had not yet experienced the agony of war, looked at the general with quizzical eyes. "How will I know fear if I do not know what it looks like?" The general replied, "You will know fear because it speaks very fast and it speaks very loud."If that is how fear acts, recognizing it is easy. But as the young soldier considered the general's advice, she asked the question facing us now. "Once I know fear, how do I defeat it?"The Federation put her here.Where are you from, Captain? That saying about Kelpiens is so apt, having experienced it firsthand. I wonder where it originated.But where, exactly? I went there with you once, but I can't remember the name.Right. Those beautiful beaches.If Starfleet recruited a Terran to lead the mission, they are desperate.Tell me the real plan.With you, Captain.This war may rage on, but your war, your great dream of Klingon unification? It's already lost.No! Enough! There's another way.He has access to the Klingon's memories.The plan is to use a drone with rock-penetrating surveillance systems to map the surface and identify military targets, in preparation for a future full-scale attack. Unfortunately, the cave Discovery will hide in isn't connected to the planet's dormant volcanoes. In order for the mapping drone to work, it has to be introduced into one of these. As you're aware, information regarding Qo'noS is virtually non-existent. We're depending on black market surveys acquired by the Vulcans over a century ago.What's there now? It's not much different in ours. No.Mmm.Don't do that.She requested you, for the landing party.You don't need to worry about me. What is that?  I intuited.No. All we can do is watch her like a hawk, and make sure she stays on mission.Thank you.If they'll talk to us.You know how to play? Like what? You won everyone over quickly. Is that an old Klingon saying? Yeah, you have a boat. I remember.I never told you about my parents. What happened to them.They were stationed at a human-Vulcan science outpost at Doctari Alpha. My mom and dad had planned a family vacation to Mars, but I begged them to stay for three more days so I could witness a nearby star go supernova. Then the Klingons attacked. My dad tried to barricade the kitchen door while my mom hid me in a cabinet. And I couldn't see, but I could hear everything. They killed my dad first. That was quick. They took longer with my mom. And when it was over, they sat down at our table. Ate dinner. Our dinner. And they were talking and laughing. And just now, all that laughter. It would be so much simpler if I could. I look around here and I just I see people living their lives. Maybe it's not normal to us, but in their own way, ordinary. The Emperor was wrong. This is a home. And if we give the Federation targets to attack, it won't ever be the same. You did. Go ahead, Tilly.Tilly? Cadet, respond. It's Tilly. A phreatic eruption. Water flashes into steam and triggers a massive explosion.Oh. This was the plan all along. Burnham to Discovery.Georgiou is about to instigate a catastrophic natural disaster on Qo'noS. She may already be in the shrine. Can you get a transporter lock on her? What about the bomb? Can you get the bomb?  Saru, I think she's following Starfleet's orders. I need to talk to Admiral Cornwell. Is this how Starfleet wins the war? Genocide? Yes. But ask yourself. Why did you put this mission in the hands of a Terran and why the secrecy? It's because you know it's not who we are.  That is all we have, Admiral. A year ago I stood alone. I believed that our survival was more important than our principles. I was wrong. Do we need a mutiny today to prove who we are? Change of plans. Deactivate the detonator, Philippa. Your freedom is still granted. Here's the proof. Of planetary slaughter? Yes. Turn it off.Not buying it. You really are nothing like my Georgiou, are you? No, I suppose not.I had much the same thought. Give it to me.Take your freedom in exchange for the detonator, or try to escape my ship and its crew and be hunted by the Federation for the rest of your days.Not particularly. But the only way you're gonna get past me is to kill me. So you'll have to watch me die again. And did I mention being hunted for the rest of your days? Not to mine, no. (into communicator) All clear. This is the place the Federation crushed the Klingons. We've planted a bomb in the heart of your homeworld. Qo'noS will be destroyed. No. To offer you an alternative.  Klingons respond to strength. Use the fate of Qo'noS to bend them to your will. Preserve your civilisation rather than watch it be destroyed.Be good, Philippa.Make sure I don't have to.I always wanted to find out what one was. I never did. They're in for a surprise. Neither am I. I've had too many of them. I see you, Ash, in your eyes. Only you.Burnham to Discovery. One to transport.Earth, Andor, Tellar, Vulcan. Every planet of the Federation has made the odyssey out of darkness into light. So too have the Klingons. The war is over. There were triumphs. Victories of spirit. Courage beyond reason. But make no mistake. These were bleak times. Times we cannot repeat. Times we cannot forget.What's an isik, anyway? Thank you for coming. I'm glad to see you.When I was growing up, you told me not to forget my humanity. I didn't know what that meant. I didn't how to do it. I didn't even know why I would want to. I get it now. So thank you, for not giving up on me.Father.The Klingons made it clear they would fight us to extinction. You were desperate to save us. I know the feeling all too well. I'm glad we'll be making that journey together.We are no longer on the eve of battle. Even so, I come to ask myself the same question that young soldier asked the general all those years ago. "How do I defeat fear?" The general's answer? The only way to defeat fear is to tell it "no." No, we will not take shortcuts on the path to righteousness. No, we will not break the rules that protect us from our basest instincts. No, we will not allow desperation to destroy moral authority. I am guilty of all these things. Some say that in life, there are no second chances. Experience tells me that this is true. But we can only look forward. We have to be torchbearers, casting the light so we may see our path to lasting peace. We will continue exploring, discovering new worlds, new civilisations. Yes, that is the United Federation of Planets.Yes. That is Starfleet.Yes, that is who we are.And who we will always be. Well, if there's time, I'll show you around. It's strange that we're not jumping to Vulcan. It's the USS Enterprise.
























